---
layout: post
title:      "My Path To Flatiron "
date:       2019-06-30 21:51:09 -0400
permalink:  my_path_to_flatiron
---

Software engineering has always had a special place in my heart as I was envious of those who were able to successfully develop it into a profession (no pun intended). However I always saw myself at the other end of the spectrum and assumed, although tech was an interest of mine, it would never really turn into more than a far-fetched dream. In high school I took a few classes on web design and similar subjects which only furthered my interest in the field. This helped me acquire a few neat tricks I could show my family and anyone I could get to listen. These introductory tech classes were always the most captivating and easiest to actively participate in. This resulted in me always walking out the door with more questions than I began with, and an eagerness to learn more. The subject had held my curiosity much more than the other extracurriculars I had on my daily agenda. Which has now lead me to where I'm at today. 

After I graduated high school my learning opportunities in software development weren't nearly as prevalent. This left me feeling like I just wanted more out of my education. I pursued a degree in Business Management but then changed to Finance. While attending classes for my Finance degree I also played around with a minor in Accounting, but found that field wasn't exactly the path I wanted to pursue either. Eventually, I considered pursuing a Computer Science degree in order to finally be in a field I knew I'd had continual interest in. However at the stage I was with my schooling, I quickly realized this would require me to completely start over from square one, three years seemingly wasted. 

After talking to a few friends about the concept of a coding bootcamp and multiple weeks of searching the internet I came across Flatiron School which seemed to be everything I was looking for. Starting the pre-work and completing a few introductory lessons in Javascript, I was hooked and couldn't stop thinking about the concepts I was learning as well 
as the exposure I was getting. Even being stuck on a lesson, I genuinely enjoyed the problem solving process and the struggle I would endure to get my answers. Once I actually started the program I was reassured of my decision, with more support than I ever expected. Aside from the curriculum I've been learning, the platform at Flatiron makes it easy for beginners to learn with features like the 'Ask Question' and 1:1 meetings with our cohort lead. The program at Flatiron has definitely increased my interest in software development even further as I truly feel I've joined a community who shares a similar passion. Starting in a new field after doing something else for so long can definitely be intimidating, however I feel the majority of the pressure I felt has been alleviated, and I'm now looking forward to riding the struggle bus through whatever is thrown my way in this program. 
	

